# Constitution

Article I. ## Name of Student Organization

- The name of this student organization shall be the Society for Undergraduate Mathematics Students (SUMS) @ UCSD, hereafter referred to as 'SUMS' and 'The Organization'. 

Article II. ## Statement of Purpose

- The purpose of SUMS is to serve the undergraduate mathematics community at UCSD by providing a structured environment in which mathematics-related activities may be carried out, including social or networking events, technical workshops, and invited speakers. The goal of SUMS will be to promote a cohesive community of mathematics students, to strengthen bonds between students and faculty, and to provide a safe environment conducive to the exploration and appreciation of Mathematics.


Article III. ## Nonprofit Statement

   SUMS at UCSD is a non-profit student organization, and as such any revenue generated by club activities can only be used to fund future club activities.

Article IV. ## Club Membership

   1. Membership in SUMS is open to any and all undergraduate students at UCSD.
   
   2. A member of SUMS shall have a vote in all officer elections.
   
   3. A member of SUMS shall have a vote in quarterly planning meetings, to determine what events the organization will carry out.
   
   4. To be a member of SUMS, a student must submit an interest form. They must then attend at least three (3) club events, and three (3) business meetings, and ensure that their attendance is noted. After these requirements are met, the student will be added to the list of active members for the school year.
   
   5. In order to maintain membership status, members must attend at least three (3) club events and three (3) business meetings each quarter. Any member not meeting this requirement will not be able to privy to any of the aforementioned member privileges.

Article V. ## Frequency of Organization Meetings

   1. The organization shall meet in person during the first week of each quarter, and at least once every two weeks for the remainder of the quarter. All officers are required to attend all organization meetings. An agenda must be created and shared with every officer prior to every board meeting. All officers are required to view the agenda before the board meeting starts and are encouraged to add agenda items pertaining to their positions. Board meetings are primarily intended for discussion of issues that require participation and attention from more than one officer, especially issues that may difficult to discuss online; "catch-up" should not be the priority of any board meeting, as officers are expected to be in constant awareness of organization issues and updates on their own. Officers, particularly the secretary, must ensure that the board meeting progresses at a continuous pace, making sure not to miss any agenda items due to time constraints. Any missed agenda items must be discussed in another means (e.g. online) in a timely manner. The secretary shall take minutes of each board meeting and ensure that the minutes are shared with board members and linked on the website.
   
   2. The organization shall meet with its community advisor at least three (3) times per quarter.

Article VI. ## Qualifications of Holding Office and Methods of Selecting and Replacing Officers

   1. ### General

      Only registered UCSD students may hold office in the organization. Only registered UCSD students may vote in elections for the selection of the organization's officers.

   2. ### Officers

      1. **President**

         The duties of this role include planning, scheduling, and attending all meetings with officers and club advisors. This includes chairing such meetings, unless otherwise specified. It also includes overseeing all other positions, including being a member of all committees. This role also serves as a liaison between the club and university faculty, including the club advisor and any affiliated representatives of Associated Students. Duties include representing the club before the University and student body, which includes overseeing and approving all communications and advertisements produced by the club. 

      2. **Vice President**
      
         The Vice President is responsible for assisting the President with all administrative duties within the Organization in their absence. This may include planning or hosting events, working with planning or volunteer committees to carry out events, communicating with Associated Students or the club advisor, and chairing meetings in the president's absence. The Vice President is responsible for assisting in any and all planning efforts, which may include reserving or booking rooms, planning allocation of funding, and stewarding the process of room reservation and/or funding requests through Associated Students. The Vice President shall be accountable for all duties of the president in their absence.

      3. **Treasurer**

         The primary duty of this position is to coordinate among the officers to create funding proposals. These include expected budgets, food orders, and proposed reimbursement or payment methods for each event. The treasurer shall be responsible for documenting any and all funding obtained by the organization from any source, as well as keeping detailed records of all financial transactions undertaken by SUMS or its members. This includes maintaining copies of all funding requests submitted to Associated Students, all receipts for any purchases made by members or the organization's funding manage (when applicable), independently verified evidence of any revenue generated from fundraisers, and a ledger of any transactions involving the organization's own funds.

      4. **Secretary**

         The Secretary is responsible for attending all official meetings, taking minutes, and ensuring that minutes are shared and accessible to all Officers. The Secretary is also responsible in assisting the President in making meeting agendas. The Secretary is responsible for responding to all inquiries sent to the SUMS e-mail account. The Secretary is responsible for scheduling meetings with Faculty or the Club Advisor. The Secretary is responsible for assisting the President and the Vice President in all administrative duties. The Secretary is responsible for all the responsibilities carried by the President and/or Vice President, in their absence

      5. **Event Coordinator**

         This position involves planning and deciding what events the club will do over the school year, as well as creating/managing the calendar of events and deadlines. This entails deciding what types of events to do, assigning a tentative date/location, and coming up with potential ideas for food or refreshments. If funding is involved, this position is also responsible for helping flesh out funding. This primarily includes helping to provide the details that are needed for a funding request to Associated Students, but in the future may also involve other sources such as fundraisers.

      6. **Technology Chair**

         This position involves creating and maintaining the various technologies used by the club. This includes managing the build and deployment process of the club's website, stewarding the server access provided to the club via Associated Students, and helping to create tools to improve the club's workflow. This may also involve maintaining any private or school-provided servers used by the club, and managing any digital resources (such as user accounts and login details) provided to club members.
         This position involves adding, updating, and maintaining the content on the website at [sums.ucsd.edu](http://sums.ucsd.edu/). If a page for an event needs to be made, or dates/times/descriptions need to be changed on the website, this position is the first point of contact. This position may also work with the underlying code base for the website, including adding updates/improvements over time. 
         
      7. **Website Coordinator**
      
         This position assists the Technology Chair on smaller, yet more frequent, tasks with regards to keeping the content of the website regular. This position is also second point of contact for ensuring that events are properly advertised, scheduled, and non-disparate. If there are no other tasks to complete, this position entails continually adding new content to populate the website.

      8. **Historian**

         This position involves attending the events, taking photographs (with the permission of attendees) which can then be added to the website and/or Facebook group. It also involves things like tracking and organizing past meeting minutes and attendance information from previous events, as well as maintaining a history/archive page on the website.

      9. **Publicity Chair**

         The primary duty of this position is to ensure that event details are communicated to the student body and the public. This involves working with other officers to finalize details such as event descriptions, times, and locations. It also includes heading any club advertising efforts, such as designing/printing/posting flyers, creating Facebook events, and reaching out to students via email. 
         

   3. ### Requirements
   
      - SUMS officers are responsible for carrying out all administrative duties within SUMS. All Officers shall have the power to vote on decisions affecting the Organization. 
      
      - All officers are required to attend all organizational meetings and all meetings with the club advisor. Officers missing more than two (2) such meetings within a quarter may be subject to removal.
   
   4. ### Elections
   
      - SUMS shall, at minimum, hold public elections for all officer positions on a regular basis. Voters shall consist of qualified member of the club at the time of the election (as described in section 4), as well as current officers. 
      
      - Elections shall proceed as follows: 
         - The president shall go through the list of officer positions one by one. 
         - For each position, the floor will be opened for nominations.
         - Any member or current officer may nominate any other member or officer for the given position. No member or officer may nominate themselves.
         - The nomination may be seconded by any member or officer. 
         - If the nomination is not seconded, the nominee will not be considered for the position.
         - If the nomination is seconded, the nominee will be added to a list of candidates.
         - The chair shall call for additional nominees, until no more are provided.
         - The chair will then take a vote for each candidate (Yea or Nay). All present members and officers may vote, and may vote for any number of candidates.
         - Votes will be tallied. Only candidates that receive a majority vote of 2/3 will be considered for appointment.
         - The chair will then appoint the candidate with the most votes to the position. No candidate can be appointed to more than one position.
         - If no candidate receives a 2/3 majority vote, a follow-up election must be scheduled and appointment of the position will be tabled until that time.

   5. ### Removal of Officers
   
      - Any Officer may be removed from office for their failure to perform their prescribed duties, or for actions that violate or go against the stated purpose of the organization. 
      - Any such breach of duty will first be brought to the attention of the club advisor. Pending the approval of the club advisor, the officer removal process will then be started.
      - Removal of an officer can be brought up as an agenda item at any regular business meeting, or a specific meeting may be scheduled to resolve the issue.
      - In such a meeting, any officer may make a motion to remove a specific officer. If this motion is seconded, the motion will be opened for discussion.
      - After discussion, the motion will be brought to a vote. The motion passes if it receives a 2/3 majority vote. Any member or current officer may vote.
      - If the motion passes, the officer in question is immediately removed from their position. Access to all club resources (such as login information, access to organization communication channels, and access to shared resources) will be rescinded. The officer will also be removed from the list of registered principal members (if applicable).
      - The duties of any removed officer will be redistributed among the remaining officers.


Article VII. ## Risk Management

   1. ### SUMS at UCSD understands that the University does not assume liability for the actions of the organization.

   2. ### In Case of Interaction with Minors And/Or the Elderly

      SUMS at UCSD is aware that all registered student organizations that  serve minors or the elderly have access to training on child and elder abuse prevention for its members via the Center for Student Involvement, online or in person (in person by request only). SUMS will develop plan(s) for activities and events where members will be interacting with minors or the elderly such that members will receive education and/or training on Child Abuse Neglect Reporting Act (CANRA), common sense measures to both avoid child or elder abuse allegations (i.e. avoiding oneon-onesituations; working with minors in plain view of others; limiting calls/texts/social media posts or other communications with minors), and how to properly report potential harm or neglect to minors or the elderly with whom they are working.

8. ## Community Advisor

   1. SUMS will choose a community advisor on a yearly basis, and is responsible for maintaining ongoing communication with its advisor throughout the year. At minimum, all SUMS officers will meet with the club advisor three (3) times per quarter to report on current club activities and future plans. 
   
   2. All official communications with university faculty or employees must be reviewed and approved by the community advisor before being distributed. Additionally, any and all personal or disciplinary issues must be brought to the advisor's attention before any ensuing actions or decisions are enacted by SUMS.

9. ## Financial Management

   1. SUMS reserves the right to undertake fundraisers. All fundraising shall be conducted in compliance with University Policy.
   
   2. All funding obtained from any sources shall be recorded and documented by the club's Treasurer and/or Secretatary. This includes but is not limited to funds obtained from club fundraisers, funds provided by Associated Students for events, and reimbursements made for any out-of-pocket expenses. Detailed records of all financial transactions related to SUMS activities shall be kept at all times, and will be made available to organization members, officers, or university officials upon request.
   
   3. SUMS reserves the right to maintain an bank account, managed by one or several officers designated annually, which may be used to store funds obtained from fundraising acitivites, and may be used as a source of funding at the club's discretion.
